# EconomicDownturnandInnovation
Exploring the effects of economic downturn on innovation and future economic opportunity  With all of the negative news regarding the economic devastation caused by a laundry list of aftereffects of covid-19, it can be easy to feel discouraged, especially as a college student about to embark on a chapter in life where most become financially independent and aspire to start their careers. As a data science student with an academic concentration in economics, I am an avid listener to podcasts like Planet Money and How I Built This. These podcasts were started in response to the 2008 recession to start conversations about how economic climates affect individuals, households, companies, and the world at large. Planet money tends to focus on overall effects of policies and decisions, while How I Built This highlights companies and their founders, who often focus on how hardships have shaped the success of their businesses. I thought to myself, some of the most prevalent companies in our world today got their start out of the 2008 recession. Uber, Slack, Whatsapp, and countless others found success in the midst of a serious economic downturn. It got me thinking about the potential connection between economic downturn and innovation.   For my senior project, I want to focus on how economic crisis can lead to innovation, growth, and greater success in the future. I plan to start by exploring trends and relationships between indicators of both economic prosperity and economic devastation. For example, I think it would be interesting to look at the connection between unemployment rate and enrollment of non traditional post-secondary students. Additionally, it would be interesting to see how patent filings trend with the stock market, or small business openings in lower income communities. I plan then narrow down the indicators I will focus on to try and predict how those factors will influence future economic recovery. 
